page 2, content:
Academic Calendar–Fall Term 2024
26-August	Monday	Registration reopens for all AS&E students at 12 a.m. 
29-August	Thursday	Undergraduate New Student Orientation begins;
Matriculation
29-August	Thursday	International Student Orientation
2-September	Monday	Labor Day (University Holiday) No Classes
3-September	Tuesday	Classes Begin
4 September	Wednesday	TA/RA Orientation (SOE)
6 September	Friday	Graduate Student Orientation (SOE)
10-September	Tuesday	Last day for AS&E students to ADD classes
8-October	Tuesday	Last day for AS&E students (except First-Year Undergraduate students, first-semester Transfer students, and
first-semester REAL students) to DROP Full Term courses
without record of enrollment
14-October	Monday	Indigenous Peoples' Day (University Holiday)
No Classes Held
15-October	Tuesday	Last day for AS&E students to make up incomplete grades
from Spring 2024
21-October	Monday	Graduate students in First Session courses only: Last Day
for Graduate AS&E Students to WITHDRAW from classes
and receive a Grade of W
5-November	Tuesday	Presidential Election Day (No classes held)
11-November	Monday	Veterans' Day (University Holiday) No Classes
Nov 12	Tuesday	Spring 2025 registration starts for graduate and postbac
students in SIS
27-November	Wednesday	No Classes
28-November	Thursday	Thanksgiving (University Holiday) No Classes
29-November	Friday	No Classes (University Holiday)
10-December	Tuesday	Classes end
10-December	Tuesday	Graduate Students Only: Last Day to WITHDRAW from
Full Term and Second Session Courses and Receive a
Grade of W
11-12-Dec.	Wed-Thur	Reading Period

page 3, content:
13-December	Friday	Review Boards begin
13-December	Friday	Final Examinations begin
20-December	Friday	Final Examinations end
20-December	Friday	Review Boards end
25-December	Wednesday	Christmas Day Observed (University Holiday)

Academic Calendar–Spring Term 2025
1-January	Wednesday	New Year's Day Observed (University Holiday)
2-January	Thursday	Fall Term Grades Due Online by 9 a.m.
15-January	Wednesday	Classes Begin
17-January	Friday	Graduate Student Orientation (SOE)
20-January	Monday	Martin Luther King Day (University Holiday)
22-January	Wednesday	SOE Graduate Students students to make up incomplete
grades from Fall 2024
15-Feb to 21-April		Graduate students to apply and submit materials for May
graduation
17-February	Monday	Presidents' Day Observed (University Holiday) No Classes
19-February	Wednesday	Last day for AS&E students to DROP courses without record
of enrollment
26-February	Wednesday	Last day for AS&E students to make up incomplete grades
from Fall 2024
4-March	Tuesday	Graduate students in First Session courses only: Last Day
for Graduate AS&E Students to WITHDRAW from classes
and receive a Grade of W
15-March	Saturday	Spring Recess begins; Classes Suspended
24-March	Monday	Spring Recess ends; Classes Resume
9-April	Wednesday	Fall 2025 registration starts for graduate and postbac students in SIS
21-April	Monday	Patriots' Day observed (University Holiday) No Classes
28-April	Monday	Classes end
28-April	Monday	Last Day for Graduate AS&E Students to WITHDRAW from
Courses and Receive a Grade of W
29-April	Tuesday	Reading Period; Make-up Day (no classes held)

page 4, content:
Academic Calendar–Spring Term 2025 (continued)
30-April	Wednesday	Reading Period
1-May	Thursday	Reading Period
2-May	Friday	Review Boards begin/ Final Examinations begin
9-May	Friday	Final Examinations end
9-May	Friday	Review Boards end
12-May	Monday	Senior Week begins
16-May	Friday	Remaining Grades Due Online by 9 a.m.
18-May	Sunday	Commencement

Academic Calendar–Summer/Fall Term 2025
21-May	Monday	First and 12 Week Summer Sessions begin
26-May	Monday	Memorial Day (University Holiday)
19-June	Wednesday	Juneteenth observed (University Holiday) No Classes
4-July	Thursday	Independence Day observed (University Holiday)

Academic Calendar–Links
Academic Calendar https://students.tufts.edu/registrar/courses-and-calendars/academic-calendar
Graduation Deadlines and Important Dates: https://students.tufts.edu/registrar/
make-request/apply-graduation/graduation-information-graduate-students

page 12, content:
Leaves of Absence
Overview of Leaves
There are three types of leave available to graduate students: personal leave, parental accommodation, and medical leave. Information about each leave type is detailed
below, with additional information on the Student Life website. It is recommended
that students who are considering a leave of absence discuss their plan with their academic advisor and the department's graduate studies committee representative. Students who are on leave, except for those on approved Ph.D. Parental Accommodation,
are not charged tuition and fees and are not eligible for stipends; funding upon return
cannot be guaranteed; if you have questions about the leave please speak with your
department's graduate studies committee representative. In cases where a student
has a teaching or research assistant appointment, it is expected the student alert their
advisor as well as the department's graduate studies committee representative of the
leave. No courses/credits taken during a leave may be transferred towards a student's
degree requirements. Notification should be given within a reasonable time period
prior to the leave so alternate arrangements can be made for the duration of time the
student will be on leave.

Student loan borrowers will receive exit interview and repayment information and
may be required to begin loan repayment while on leave. Students who are not in
good academic standing when taking a leave must have an academic plan intact so
upon their return they can continue making academic progress. This plan must be
approved by their academic advisor and the graduate dean before their return. Please
see the policy on academic standing on page 8.

Because leaves of absence can impact visa status and eligibility to remain in the
United States, international students who are considering taking a leave must contact
the International Center before any leave is authorized. Personal leaves of absence
directly jeopardize an international student's ability to remain in the United States.

page 18, content:
Reinstatement Policy
If a graduate student has not registered at Tufts for one or more semesters, and later
decides to resume work in the degree program, the student must be reinstated by the
graduate school. In order to be reinstated, a student must complete the Petition for
Reinstatement form and submit it along with all required supporting documentation
to the dean's office for consideration. A $350 reinstatement fee will be charged to all
graduate students who re-enroll in the graduate program.

International students must contact the International Center prior to requesting a
reinstatement in order to properly plan any visa needs if approved.

Reinstatement will be a decision by the department and its graduate committee and
will have to be approved by the graduate dean.

Transfer of Credit
Students may apply for transfer credit for graduate-level courses taken at Tufts or at
other institutions. (Graduate certificate students may not transfer in courses taken
outside of Tufts.* Courses taken through the Tufts Gordon Institute that are beyond the
degree requirements cannot be transferred to another Tufts engineering program). It
is recommended that students apply for transfer credit at the beginning of their graduate program. Transfer of credit is requested and processed in SIS.

A maximum of two courses may be transferred and used to fulfill requirements for a
graduate degree, subject to the following conditions. Credits transferred must:
- Carry the grade of B- or better (courses taken as pass/fail cannot be transferred)
- Not have been counted toward another degree**
- Have been earned in graduate-level courses at a properly accredited institution
- Have been taken within the past five years

These are minimum requirements for credits transferred. Departments have the right
to impose additional criteria.

*Students previously enrolled in a Tufts certificate program may petition to transfer all credits required for the certificate into a Tufts graduate degree program. Degree candidates cannot earn more than one certificate in conjunction with a graduate degree. Some departments 
may allow certificates to be earned concurrently with the degree program. See your departmental graduate handbook for your program's requirements and policies. Students in eligible programs must formally apply for a certificate program, and be admitted at least two 
semesters before completing their primary graduate degree program, in order to be eligible to 
receive a concurrent certificate.
**Courses taken in the duration of a degree program are eligible for transfer credit only if a 
transcript notation or documentation from the institution confirms the course was in excess

page 19, content:
of degree requirements, and withheld from calculation in overall earned credit hours, GPA, 
and honors.

In all cases, the transfer of courses must be approved by the department. Approved courses 
that meet all eligibility requirements will be posted on the graduate transcript.

Doctoral candidates may not transfer courses counted toward a master's degree to
their doctoral program. However, individual departments and programs may, at their
discretion, accept these courses in order to reduce the number of courses required
for the doctoral degree. No student will be allowed to graduate without formal department and program approval of the credits earned elsewhere. It is the student's
responsibility to obtain approval of the credits from the department or program prior
to submitting the application for graduation.

Transfer of Credit from Tufts University College
Engineering graduate courses taken through the Tufts University College may only be
transferred into a degree or certificate program with the permission of the graduate
dean.

Fifth-Year Master's Program Double-Counting Policy—
School of Engineering
School of Engineering seniors are eligible to apply to the Fifth-Year Master's Degree
Program. Juniors are not eligible to apply, and must wait until their senior year to
submit an application. Fifth-Year MS program students in the School of Engineering
who matriculate into the MS program after February 1, 2023, may transfer from their
undergraduate studies two eligible reserved graduate-level courses towards their MS
degree and double-count two courses towards both the BS and MS degrees, for a total 
of four courses. Only 100-level courses that contribute toward the graduate program
requirements are eligible, and the courses must be reserved before matriculating
into the graduate program. Eligible courses cross-listed between departments in the
School of Engineering may be double-counted. Courses cross-listed across departments in the School of Engineering and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences will
not be double-counted towards the School of Engineering master's degree requirements. To apply courses toward both degrees and/or reserve courses for graduate
credit, a completed SOE Fifth-Year Master's Course Distribution Form must be submitted with the undergraduate graduation packet. Students must complete and earn their
undergraduate degree before matriculating into the MS program. The degrees cannot
be completed concurrently. Courses cannot be retroactively reserved or shared after
the undergraduate degree is conferred. Students may enroll full-time or part-time
while participating in the master's degree portion of the combined degree program,

page 20, content:
but must enroll immediately after completion of their BS degree. No deferrals are
available for this program. Courses may not be counted more than two times across
certificates or degree programs. Fifth-Year students pursuing two MS degrees will
need to complete a minimum of 16 additional courses beyond their BS program.

English Language Proficiency Evaluation
In order to help School of Engineering international graduate students develop superb communication skills, all incoming graduate students who were required to
submit TOEFL and/or IELTS scores for admission will have their English language
proficiency skills evaluated. Those deemed needing more ESL support will be required to take a non-credit, graded course in English for Technical Professionals
during their first semester of graduate study. Students will be automatically enrolled
in a mandatory second semester course in English for Technical Professionals at the
discretion of the administrator. Failure to complete the required course(s) will prevent the student from graduating.

Advisors
Graduate students are assigned academic advisors and thesis or dissertation mentors
by their departments. There are occasions when it is desirable for students to switch
to a new advisor or mentor.

These changes are considered to be a standard practice so long as they conform to the
policies and procedures of the department. Students may consult with the graduate
dean if questions arise about advisor or mentor assignments.

The faculty director of the graduate certificate program in most cases serves as the
advisor of enrolled students.

Non-Discrimination Statement
Tufts is enriched by the many experiences and perspectives each individual member
brings to our community. Tufts does not discriminate in admissions, employment, or
in any of its educational programs or activities on the basis of race (including traits
historically associated with race, including, but not limited to, hair texture, hair type,
hair length and protective hairstyles), color, national or ethnic origin, ancestry, age,
religion, disability, sex or gender (including pregnancy, sexual harassment and other
sexual misconduct including acts of sexual violence such as rape, sexual assault,
stalking, sexual exploitation, sexual exploitation and coercion, relationship/intimate
partner violence and domestic violence), gender identity and/or expression (including
a transgender identity), sexual orientation, military or veteran status, genetic information, the intersection of these identities or any other characteristic protected under

page 23, content:
Registration
Continuous Enrollment Policy
Graduate students must be enrolled (registered), or on an approved leave of absence,
for every academic-year semester between matriculation and graduation. Graduate
students may only register for courses that count toward their degree program. Students should register during the early registration periods in November and April. 
The university reserves the right to withhold registration for any student having
unmet Academic Integrity Training (AIT), financial, or health services obligations. 
Students who fail to register by the end of the first week of classes, or the add deadline for the term, whichever is first, will be administratively withdrawn and subject
to a $350 reinstatement fee. International students must maintain proper enrollment
status per their visa requirements.

Degree-only Status
If a student has registered for all required courses, including thesis research (295, 296)
or dissertation research (297, 298), the student must register for a course designation
that indicates that only thesis, project, master's exhibition, or dissertation-related
work, whether part-time or full-time, is being pursued.

Master's candidates must register for course 401-PT (part-time) or 402-FT (full-time) in
their department and doctoral candidates must register for course 501-PT (part-time)
or 502-FT (full-time) in their department. Graduate students may declare full-time status of thirty-five hours per week (402 or 502) with their advisor's concurrence.

Enrollment Status
Graduate students are responsible for maintaining enrollment status at Tufts.* Federal
regulations require students to be enrolled (registered) full-time or half-time in order
to receive and/or defer student loans. Tufts provides information regarding student
enrollment status to lenders via the National Student Loan Clearinghouse and is required by law to return funds for students who do not maintain a minimum of halftime enrollment status. Enrollment status is either full-time, half-time, or part-time as
defined below:

Full-time: Nine (9) or more course credits, six (6) course credits and a teaching or
research assistantship (must also register for 405-TA or 406-RA), or registration as a
full-time continuing student (402/502) working on a thesis, dissertation, project, or
internship. Students admitted full-time who register for credits totaling less than fulltime will not achieve a full-time status.

page 24, content:
Half-time: Five (5) course credits; Two (2) course credits plus a teaching or research
assistantship.

Part-time: One (1) to Four (4) course credits, or registration as a part-time continuing
student (401/501).

*In most situations, international students must maintain full-time status. In certain circumstances, international students may be authorized for a reduced course load, allowing 
them to drop below full-time: Contact the International Center with questions or concerns 
about Enrollment Status.

Cross-Registration and Graduate School Consortium
During the academic year, full-time graduate students may take one course per semester through cross-registration agreements with Boston College, Boston University,
and Brandeis University. A full-time graduate student at Tufts University may also
enroll for two graduate courses during any semester at the Fletcher School of Law
and Diplomacy, the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, and the Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences. Cross-registration is possible on a space available
basis. Students who wish to cross-register should consult with the instructor of the
course, and should expect to satisfy any prerequisites typically required for enrollment. Cross-registration is not permitted in any summer school. Courses satisfactorily completed (B– or better) at one of the three consortium schools (Boston College,
Boston University, and Brandeis University) automatically appear on the student's
Tufts transcript and may be counted toward degree requirements.

Tufts students who wish to cross register at a consortium school should first consult
with their academic advisor and/or the department's graduate studies committee
representative before completing the online Cross-Registration Petition Form through
SIS. The host institution reserves the right to terminate the student's participation at
that institution at any time.

Cross-registration is also offered through the Consortium for Graduate Studies in Gender, Culture, Women, and Sexuality at MIT. This consortium relationship is limited
to the specific area of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies. For information about
course offerings and application materials, visit the GCWS website.

Audits
Graduate students may arrange with an instructor to sit in on a course, but this course
will not appear on the academic record.

page 27, content:
Expenses and Payment Options
Tuition
While most tuition rate changes are effective in the fall term each academic year, The
Trustees of Tufts College reserve the right to change the tuition or to establish additional fees or charges for special features or services whenever such action is deemed
advisable. We will provide the earliest possible notification of changes in tuition and
other fees. 

For online students who receive a 10% discount, the discount only applies to the online program. Although the online students can take in-person courses, they will not
receive the discount for those courses.

Students who are billed per credit should be aware of how the tuition refund calendars will impact their bill; students should review the refund policy on the bursar's
website for details: https://students.tufts.edu/financial-services/billing/tuition-refund-policy/.

Degree Programs
The tuition for engineering master's programs is charged per-credit. Students who enroll in additional semesters to complete a thesis, project, or capstone will be charged
continuation tuition each semester.

Doctoral tuition for both full-time and part-time Ph.D. candidates is charged for nine
semesters unless the student enters the program with an appropriate master's degree,
in which case tuition is charged for six semesters. Students will be charged continuation tuition each semester after the regular tuition requirements for the program
have been satisfied. For more information, please refer to https://asegrad.tufts.edu/
tuition-aid/tuition-and-fees.

Certificate and Post-Bac Certificate Programs
Certificate and post-bac certificate students are charged per-credit. Students in the
post-bac certificate program pay a reduced rate for their undergraduate level courses.

Health Insurance and Health and Wellness Fee
Student Health Insurance:
Admitted full-time graduate students, international, and admitted part-time graduate
students enrolled in seven (7) credits or more of coursework in a fall or spring semester in Massachusetts are required by law to have health insurance: https://malegisla-

page 39, content:
Graduate Co-op Program
Tufts University's School of Engineering (SOE) offers a Cooperative (Co-op) Education
Program for full time MS students. The objective of this program is to offer Tufts SOE
MS students opportunities to pursue real-world work experience, form professional
relationships, and to enhance their resumes. The program's main goal is to introduce
students to professional experiences that will assist them in their career path. This
program helps students get a feel for a company's culture and work environment, and
learn to interact with other colleagues in their field.

Benefits of a Co-Op Program
- Provide students with the skills and frameworks to clarify short- and long-term
personal, educational, and career goals and to consistently make prudent, informed
decisions throughout one's career.
- Help students explore and experience professional employment in areas related to
the student's academic program as well as professional interests and personal aspirations. 
- Guide students through the development of a modern personal brand including
brand statements, marketing documents curation, and effective network cultivation
and strategic management.
- Understanding, practicing, and employing best practices around key career competencies in the modern world of work including, but not limited to: interviews, negotiations, workplace professionalism and etiquette, communication with leaders,
managers, and colleagues.
- Receive direct and dedicated support from the Assistant Director, Graduate Co-op
Advisor and the Tufts Career Center for the entirety of your co-op preparation and
employment experience.

How Co-Op Works
Tufts Graduate School of Engineering's co-op program offers students a unique opportunity to integrate their academic knowledge with industry and subject matter expertise to help employers address and solve practical, real-world problems. Participating
students may gain up to eight months of full-time paid work experience that is valuable for building and showcasing distinct, technical, professional, and social competencies employers covet and very often offer co-op alumni with a competitive edge for
post-graduation employment opportunities. 

Eligible MS students may complete one co-op over the course of their degree program. Students must apply to join the co-op program at the end of their first semester as an enrolled master's student. After starting their MS program and completing
18 credits, exclusive of seminar credits, that count toward their degree, students may
then look for co-op opportunities.

page 40, content:
The Graduate Co-op Program follows a cohort model, where admitted students are
grouped based on the semester they intend to begin their co-op positions. During
the preceding semester, students will engage in intentional, independent, and cohort-shared experiences across all aspects of the Tufts Career Center Career Planning
and Management Process, including self-assessment and discovery, strategic opportunity identification and targeting, custom marketing document creation and co-op
search, relationship building practice and management, and modern interview and
negotiation practice and preparation. Consistent participation in curated professional
development offerings, collaborative and supportive cohort working groups, and
regularly scheduled meetings with the Graduate Co-op Advisor is expected, and often
mandatory. The Career Center and the SOE Graduate School are sincerely invested in
our admitted co-op program students' development and execution plan and have built
a system of impactful tools, resources, coaching expertise, and insights that are fundamental to not only securing a co-op but also managing all aspects of a career. 

In preparation for a co-op search, students must participate in the required career
development sessions offered by Tufts Career Center, which provide valuable skills
needed to be successful in securing a co-op position that simultaneously aligns with
individual needs and preference while also adhering to Tufts standards and ethical
guidelines and employer expectation.

As part of the co-op program, eligible MS students are only allowed to accept one position during their time in the program. There is no guarantee that students who enter the 
co-op program will secure employment.

Cost Of Co-Op Program 
There is no additional charge for a student to be enrolled in the co-op program.

Graduate Co-op Program Eligibility 
Prerequisites that the student must meet to be considered for the program:
1. Must be enrolled in a program that offers the Graduate Co-op Program (see the
list of departments below). This program is not available to part time programs,
online programs, certificate programs, Ph.D. programs, or Post Baccalaureate
programs. Students enrolled in a combined Post-Bacc/MS program or Fifth-Year
MS programs are eligible to participate as long as they meet program requirements.
2. Must complete at least 2 full-time semesters as a fully-matriculated and enrolled
Master's student. Students must complete a minimum of 9 credits in their first
semester to be considered for the program and must complete at least 18 credits
towards their MS programs before beginning their co-op. Newly matriculated stu-

page 41, content:
dents can only apply for the program and attend the required info session before
the end of their first semester as a full-time student. 
a. Post-Bacc/MS students: No bachelor-level classes for at least 2 full-time semesters before beginning their co-op.
a. Fifth-Year MS students: Must be fully matriculated with a completed BS degree.
3. Must be in good academic standing (See requirements below), enrolled full-time,
have had no previous extensions of time or reduced course load accommodations, and have not enrolled in any undergraduate course as an MS student. 
4. Must have at least one semester remaining in their MS programs after co-op
opportunity . 

Academics and the Co-op Program
Students must meet all requirements of the SOE Graduate Handbook and any departmental specific requirements to be eligible and to participate in the program. All students must meet the following criteria:
1. Good Academic Standing requirement: Students need to be in good academic
standing, enrolled full-time, have had no previous extensions of time or reduced course load accommodations, and have not enrolled in any undergraduate courses as an MS student. Students must be in good academic standing at all
times. Failure to remain in good academic standing at all times will result in a
student being removed from the co-op program and the MS time to degree will be
reduced to the non-co-op time to degree limits for MS programs.
2. Course completion requirement: Fully matriculated students must complete two
full-time semesters before working at a co-op, with at least 9 credits total completed in their first semester and at least 18 total credits in the second semester. 
Courses must be taken at Tufts while matriculated and enrolled as an SOE graduate student. The SOE will be checking to see if an applicant is on track for meeting these requirements in the application process. 
3. The student's academic record must demonstrate a high level of success,
including:
a. No missing grades.
b. No incomplete grades (grade of I).
c. No grade of W in the most recent spring/fall semester completed or in progress.
d. No more than one repeated/substituted course.
e. No academic probation or disciplinary issues.
f. No semesters on a reduced course load or degree extensions of time.

page 42, content:
g. Satisfied language assessment and completion of the English for Technical
Professionals online course (for international students who were required to
submit TOEFL/language scores in their application).
4. Students searching for a co-op position during a fall or spring semester must
meet the semester-hour requirements.
5. All students must have their academic advisors sign off on the Co-op Agreement
form to ensure a return plan that outlines a feasible pathway for completing the
remaining requirements within the degree time limits. The sequence of courses
in the program should be considered in addition to possible alternatives to required courses, should a required course not be offered during the semester
when the student returns from co-op. A student's degree program cannot be
extended because a required course is not offered during the semester that they
return. 
6. After the co-op, students must return to complete one full semester at Tufts before graduating. There must be degree requirements remaining in their program
after the co-op is completed. Students cannot go on a co-op if all degree requirements are already satisfied.

Departments Participating in Co-Op Program
Students enrolled in MS degree programs offered by the following departments are
eligible to participate in the co-op program for graduate students. Part-time, online
certificate, post-bacc, and Ph.D. students students do not qualify for the co-op.
- Biomedical Engineering
- Chemical and Biological Engineering
- Civil and Environmental Engineering
- Computer Science
- Electrical and Computer Engineering
- Mechanical Engineering
- Tufts Gordon Institute

Questions and Contact Information
Graduate Admissions for new applicants.
Career Center for enrolled MS students.

Co-op Application Process
To be considered for enrollment in the Graduate Co-op Program, students must:
1. Attend a REQUIRED Graduate Co-op Information Session. Info sessions are
typically held at the end of the semester and are hosted by the Career Center and
partnership with SOE. Eligible students will receive an announcement to their

page 43, content:
Tufts email on dates and details on the info session and can register for the event
on Handshake. Attendance is tracked and monitored so the student can receive
important information.
2. Complete the Graduate Co-op Program Application. The applications submission platform opens the day of the information session and only those with verified attendance will receive access to the application link. Interested students
must apply before the application deadline which is consistently announced
throughout the semester in multiple co-op promotional email messages to the
Graduate SOE community as well as in this information session. Please note: Applications will not be accepted after any established submission deadline.
3. Important deadlines, dates, and announcements can be found on the Career Center's Graduate Co-op Program Page.
4. After the student has completed the steps above, the Career Center will review
applications in partnership with SOE to determine eligibility for the program. 
Students will receive an email to their Tufts email regarding their acceptance or
declination from the program. 
Questions on academic planning should be directed to SOE.

Participating in the Graduate Co-op Program
Once a student has received their acceptance into the program, the student then has
received authorization to begin searching for co-op jobs, participating in interviews,
and considering offers. 

The Graduate Co-op Program is a cohort-style program which means that students
will be accepted into a cohort based on the semester they plan to work at their co-ops. 
They will then use the semester prior to job search and attend the required career
development sessions. For example, if a student is accepted into the Spring 2025 co-op
cohort, they will be job searching and participating in the program in Fall 2024 to plan
on working at a job in Spring 2025 through the summer. 

Students will receive details on the required workshops, events, and sessions from the
Career Center. Accepted students must:
1. Complete an initial meeting with the Graduate Co-op Advisor in the Career Center. Students will review program requirements, sign the Co-op Agreement Form
with an academic advisor's signature, and strategize on their co-op search. 
2. The Co-op Agreement Form outlines basic expectations and rules students must
follow for a successful experience in the Graduate Co-op Program. If a student
fails to meet the program's participation expectations, it may result in removal
from the program. 
3. Attend the required workshops, events, and sessions.

page 44, content:
4. It may take several months to secure a co-op. Students should utilize the Career
Center's resources, meet with their Graduate Co-op Advisor regularly, and be consistently proactive in their job search. 
5. Students are required to attend regular and routine meetings with the Graduate
Co-op Advisor. This person will be your career coach, advisor, advocate, and mentor for all aspects of the co-op planning and preparation process from the first
personal introduction through the completion of the student's co-op experience.

Eligible Co-op Roles
Students are responsible for searching for and finding their own co-ops. Tufts does
not place students into co-ops. Students can find co-ops in various avenues including
but not limited to: Handshake, various job board websites (LinkedIn, Indeed, Glassdoor, etc.), or through networking. An eligible co-op must meet the following criteria:
1. Must be full-time hours (35+ hours per week).
2. Related to the MS student's area of studies and advanced to challenge a graduate
student.
3. Work dates, at minimum, span the entirety of one academic semester and may
also include a portion of the summer, given that most co-op opportunities are
typically six months long. Co-op appointments must include summer/fall semesters or spring/summer semesters. No fall/spring (full academic year) co-ops are
allowed at this time.
4. Must be paid. Co-ops are paid positions and compensation should be adjusted
based on industry standard, employer salary ranges, and location. Positions are
typically paid via an hourly wage, biweekly sum, or monthly sum. Some co-op
compensation packages may also include relocation funds or funds to support
housing.
5. Cannot be related to conducting academic research, writing a thesis, grading, or
teaching. No positions at Tufts University will be considered for the co-op program.
6. Students may only participate in one co-op opportunity during their master's program and the experience must be with a single company.

If one or more of the criteria above is not met, the co-op role will not be approved. For
questions on eligible co-ops, please contact the Graduate Co-op Advisor.

Accepting and Working at a Co-op
To accept and start working at a co-op, a student must be accepted and enrolled in the
Graduate Co-op Program and be enrolled in the appropriate cohort for the specific
term they are planning to work. Once a student has accepted a co-op offer they must:

page 45, content:
1. Report their co-op on Handshake through Experiences. The Graduate Co-op
Advisor will review the co-op to make sure it meets co-op eligibility and an additional review is completed by the student's co-op supervisor. Students will need
an official offer letter from a company with:
- The start date and end date
- Full-time employment status (35+ hours per week)
- Salary information
- Job description
- Supervisor information
- Location of the co-op

Co-op appointments must include summer/fall semesters or spring/summer semesters. No fall/spring (full academic year) co-ops are allowed at this time.

2. Once a student has an approved co-op on Handshake, they will then receive permission to register for the Graduate Co-op Course from the Graduate Co-op Advisor. Students must register for the Graduate Co-op Course for the semester they
will be working in the co-op. This is a zero credit, no cost course that is required
for the co-op program. This provides an accommodation for the student to maintain full-time status and does not affect loan repayment, financial aid, or health
care. Only students enrolled in the program and that have approved co-ops will
be granted permission to register.
3. The student must be in good academic standing before embarking on a co-op job,
failure to do so may result in being removed from the co-op program. 
4. The student must return to campus for at least one semester after the co-op work
experience. 
5. Co-op is considered full time employment, therefore students should not hold
any other jobs or enroll in classes during their co-op.
6. Students utilizing Tufts Housing must continue to fulfill all lease obligations.
7. Students must continue to pay all Tufts fees, health fees, and health insurance.

Courses During Co-op
Aside from the SOE Graduate Co-op Course (a 0-credit course), students may not take
any course during their co-op experience without special approval from the Graduate
Co-op Advisor and their employer. Approval will only be granted for special circumstances, such as required virtual department seminars. 

Changing Co-op Semesters
Students who do not secure a co-op placement during their first co-op search or need
to change when they would like to go out on co-op may request to extend their search
(not their degree program) by one semester by completing a "Request to Extend Co-op
Search" form which the Graduate Co-op Advisor can provide upon request.

page 46, content:
• All eligibility requirements still apply, and only one search extension can be requested.
• Students are responsible for communicating with the Graduate Co-op Advisor to
learn more about this process and meet all deadlines, including the deadline for
when to submit the form.
• The student will need to complete the form, have their academic advisor review to
sign the form, then submit it to the Graduate Co-op Advisor for final approval. 
• All requests are evaluated in detail to ensure that the student meets eligibility requirements. 
• If the request is approved, the Graduate Co-op Advisor will respond to the student to
their Tufts email on which semester they have been approved to go on co-op.

Evaluation of Co-op
To receive a passing grade ("S") for the Graduate Co-op Course, students must:
1. Fulfill all work obligations as outlined on their offer letter and Experiences submission.
2. Work during the full duration of the co-op with no major breaks (for example,
taking a month off).
3. Complete the required Self Evaluation on Handshake.
4. Supervisor must complete employer evaluation on Handshake.

Students who are dismissed from or resign from a co-op job for circumstances under
their control will receive a U (unsatisfactory) grade for co-op work experience and
will be ineligible for future co-op experiences. Failure of a student to succeed in their
co-op will not affect their academic standing, but it may shorten their program completion time limit. 

Graduate Co-op Program and International Students
International students are welcome to apply and participate in the Graduate Co-op
Program. International students must follow all the guidelines outlined and will need
to also complete the following steps:
1. Meet with the I-Center once accepted into the co-op program to review visa status
and answer questions about work authorization. 
2. Once an international student has accepted a paid co-op offer, they must apply
for Curricular Practical Training (CPT).
• What International Students need to apply for CPT under the Graduate Co-op
Program:
a) The official offer letter from the company
b) A fully approved Experiences submission on Handshake

page 47, content:
c) Registration for the Graduate Co-op Course (can only be done once a fully
approved Experiences submission on Handshake is completed)
- Please allow two weeks for the I-Center to process applications
3. International students will need to apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) if
they are working in the US. 

Additional Program Guidelines
- Students may participate in only one co-op experience during their Master's program. 
- Students who participate in any other academic semester internship are not allowed to participate in the co-op program. However, a student who is enrolled in
the Graduate Co-op Program can upgrade a summer internship to a co-op as long as
it is during their first academic year. The program cannot be changed or extended
beyond this. Students need to confirm upgrade through their employer and Tufts
within the first 90 days of their internship. If a student wishes to upgrade a summer
internship into a co-op, they will need permission from Graduate Co-op Advisor and
SOE. 
- A student who participates in a co-op at the Master's level cannot search for a second co-op.
- Students may apply for co-op jobs outside of the Tufts Career Services Co-op job database as long as the position sought is related to the student's program of study.